{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2900
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldMT;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red15\green15\blue15;\red255\green255\blue255;\red100\green103\blue104;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c7059\c7059\c7059;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c46667\c47843\c48235;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa960\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
PROVERBS 10\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs40\fsmilli20394 \AppleTypeServices \cf2 \cb3 Contrast of the Righteous and the Wicked
\fs39\fsmilli19800 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 1
\fs36 \cf2 The proverbs of Solomon.\cb1 \
\cb3 A wise son makes a father glad,\cb1 \
\cb3 But a foolish son is a grief to his mother.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 2
\fs36 \cf2 Ill-gotten gains do not profit,\cb1 \
\cb3 But righteousness delivers from death.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 3
\fs36 \cf2 The Lord will not allow the righteous to hunger,\cb1 \
\cb3 But He will reject the craving of the wicked.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 4
\fs36 \cf2 Poor is he who works with a negligent hand,\cb1 \
\cb3 But the hand of the diligent makes rich.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 5
\fs36 \cf2 He who gathers in summer is a son who acts wisely,\cb1 \
\cb3 But he who sleeps in harvest is a son who acts shamefully.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 6
\fs36 \cf2 Blessings are on the head of the righteous,\cb1 \
\cb3 But the mouth of the wicked conceals violence.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 7
\fs36 \cf2 The memory of the righteous is blessed,\cb1 \
\cb3 But the name of the wicked will rot.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 8
\fs36 \cf2 The wise of heart will receive commands,\cb1 \
\cb3 But a babbling fool will be ruined.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 9
\fs36 \cf2 He who walks in integrity walks securely,\cb1 \
\cb3 But he who perverts his ways will be found out.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 10
\fs36 \cf2 He who winks the eye causes trouble,\cb1 \
\cb3 And a babbling fool will be ruined.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 11
\fs36 \cf2 The mouth of the righteous is a fountain of life,\cb1 \
\cb3 But the mouth of the wicked conceals violence.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 12
\fs36 \cf2 Hatred stirs up strife,\cb1 \
\cb3 But love covers all transgressions.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 13
\fs36 \cf2 On the lips of the discerning, wisdom is found,\cb1 \
\cb3 But a rod is for the back of him who lacks understanding.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 14
\fs36 \cf2 Wise men store up knowledge,\cb1 \
\cb3 But with the mouth of the foolish, ruin is at hand.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 15
\fs36 \cf2 The rich man\'92s wealth is his fortress,\cb1 \
\cb3 The ruin of the poor is their poverty.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 16
\fs36 \cf2 The wages of the righteous is life,\cb1 \
\cb3 The income of the wicked, punishment.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 17
\fs36 \cf2 He is on the path of life who heeds instruction,\cb1 \
\cb3 But he who ignores reproof goes astray.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 18
\fs36 \cf2 He who conceals hatred has lying lips,\cb1 \
\cb3 And he who spreads slander is a fool.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 19
\fs36 \cf2 When there are many words, transgression is unavoidable,\cb1 \
\cb3 But he who restrains his lips is wise.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 20
\fs36 \cf2 The tongue of the righteous is as choice silver,\cb1 \
\cb3 The heart of the wicked is worth little.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 21
\fs36 \cf2 The lips of the righteous feed many,\cb1 \
\cb3 But fools die for lack of understanding.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 22
\fs36 \cf2 It is the blessing of the Lord that makes rich,\cb1 \
\cb3 And He adds no sorrow to it.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 23
\fs36 \cf2 Doing wickedness is like sport to a fool,\cb1 \
\cb3 And so is wisdom to a man of understanding.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 24
\fs36 \cf2 What the wicked fears will come upon him,\cb1 \
\cb3 But the desire of the righteous will be granted.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 25
\fs36 \cf2 When the whirlwind passes, the wicked is no more,\cb1 \
\cb3 But the righteous has an everlasting foundation.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 26
\fs36 \cf2 Like vinegar to the teeth and smoke to the eyes,\cb1 \
\cb3 So is the lazy one to those who send him.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 27
\fs36 \cf2 The fear of the Lord prolongs life,\cb1 \
\cb3 But the years of the wicked will be shortened.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 28
\fs36 \cf2 The hope of the righteous is gladness,\cb1 \
\cb3 But the expectation of the wicked perishes.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 29
\fs36 \cf2 The way of the Lord is a stronghold to the upright,\cb1 \
\cb3 But ruin to the workers of iniquity.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 30
\fs36 \cf2 The righteous will never be shaken,\cb1 \
\cb3 But the wicked will not dwell in the land.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 31
\fs36 \cf2 The mouth of the righteous flows with wisdom,\cb1 \
\cb3 But the perverted tongue will be cut out.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 32
\fs36 \cf2 The lips of the righteous bring forth what is acceptable,\cb1 \
\cb3 But the mouth of the wicked what is perverted.}