{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2900
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldMT;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red15\green15\blue15;\red255\green255\blue255;\red100\green103\blue104;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c7059\c7059\c7059;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c46667\c47843\c48235;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa960\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
PROVERBS 8\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs40\fsmilli20394 \AppleTypeServices \cf2 \cb3 The Commendation of Wisdom
\fs39\fsmilli19800 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 1
\fs36 \cf2 Does not wisdom call,\cb1 \
\cb3 And understanding lift up her voice?\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 2
\fs36 \cf2 On top of the heights beside the way,\cb1 \
\cb3 Where the paths meet, she takes her stand;\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 3
\fs36 \cf2 Beside the gates, at the opening to the city,\cb1 \
\cb3 At the entrance of the doors, she cries out:\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 4
\fs36 \cf2 \'93To you, O men, I call,\cb1 \
\cb3 And my voice is to the sons of men.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 5
\fs36 \cf2 O naive ones, understand prudence;\cb1 \
\cb3 And, O fools, understand wisdom.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 6
\fs36 \cf2 Listen, for I will speak noble things;\cb1 \
\cb3 And the opening of my lips will reveal right things.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 7
\fs36 \cf2 For my mouth will utter truth;\cb1 \
\cb3 And wickedness is an abomination to my lips.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 8
\fs36 \cf2 All the utterances of my mouth are in righteousness;\cb1 \
\cb3 There is nothing crooked or perverted in them.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 9
\fs36 \cf2 They are all straightforward to him who understands,\cb1 \
\cb3 And right to those who find knowledge.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 10
\fs36 \cf2 Take my instruction and not silver,\cb1 \
\cb3 And knowledge rather than choicest gold.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 11
\fs36 \cf2 For wisdom is better than jewels;\cb1 \
\cb3 And all desirable things cannot compare with her.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 12
\fs36 \cf2 \'93I, wisdom, dwell with prudence,\cb1 \
\cb3 And I find knowledge and discretion.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 13
\fs36 \cf2 The fear of the Lord is to hate evil;\cb1 \
\cb3 Pride and arrogance and the evil way\cb1 \
\cb3 And the perverted mouth, I hate.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 14
\fs36 \cf2 Counsel is mine and sound wisdom;\cb1 \
\cb3 I am understanding, power is mine.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 15
\fs36 \cf2 By me kings reign,\cb1 \
\cb3 And rulers decree justice.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 16
\fs36 \cf2 By me princes rule, and nobles,\cb1 \
\cb3 All who judge rightly.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 17
\fs36 \cf2 I love those who love me;\cb1 \
\cb3 And those who diligently seek me will find me.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 18
\fs36 \cf2 Riches and honor are with me,\cb1 \
\cb3 Enduring wealth and righteousness.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 19
\fs36 \cf2 My fruit is better than gold, even pure gold,\cb1 \
\cb3 And my yield better than choicest silver.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 20
\fs36 \cf2 I walk in the way of righteousness,\cb1 \
\cb3 In the midst of the paths of justice,\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 21
\fs36 \cf2 To endow those who love me with wealth,\cb1 \
\cb3 That I may fill their treasuries.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 22
\fs36 \cf2 \'93The Lord possessed me at the beginning of His way,\cb1 \
\cb3 Before His works of old.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 23
\fs36 \cf2 From everlasting I was established,\cb1 \
\cb3 From the beginning, from the earliest times of the earth.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 24
\fs36 \cf2 When there were no depths I was brought forth,\cb1 \
\cb3 When there were no springs abounding with water.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 25
\fs36 \cf2 Before the mountains were settled,\cb1 \
\cb3 Before the hills I was brought forth;\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 26
\fs36 \cf2 While He had not yet made the earth and the fields,\cb1 \
\cb3 Nor the first dust of the world.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 27
\fs36 \cf2 When He established the heavens, I was there,\cb1 \
\cb3 When He inscribed a circle on the face of the deep,\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 28
\fs36 \cf2 When He made firm the skies above,\cb1 \
\cb3 When the springs of the deep became fixed,\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 29
\fs36 \cf2 When He set for the sea its boundary\cb1 \
\cb3 So that the water would not transgress His command,\cb1 \
\cb3 When He marked out the foundations of the earth;\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 30
\fs36 \cf2 Then I was beside Him, as a master workman;\cb1 \
\cb3 And I was daily His delight,\cb1 \
\cb3 Rejoicing always before Him,\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 31
\fs36 \cf2 Rejoicing in the world, His earth,\cb1 \
\cb3 And having my delight in the sons of men.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 32
\fs36 \cf2 \'93Now therefore, O sons, listen to me,\cb1 \
\cb3 For blessed are they who keep my ways.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 33
\fs36 \cf2 Heed instruction and be wise,\cb1 \
\cb3 And do not neglect it.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 34
\fs36 \cf2 Blessed is the man who listens to me,\cb1 \
\cb3 Watching daily at my gates,\cb1 \
\cb3 Waiting at my doorposts.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 35
\fs36 \cf2 For he who finds me finds life\cb1 \
\cb3 And obtains favor from the Lord.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 36
\fs36 \cf2 But he who sins against me injures himself;\cb1 \
\cb3 All those who hate me love death.\'94}