{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2900
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldMT;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red15\green15\blue15;\red255\green255\blue255;\red100\green103\blue104;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c7059\c7059\c7059;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c46667\c47843\c48235;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa960\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
PROVERBS 3\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs40\fsmilli20394 \AppleTypeServices \cf2 \cb3 The Rewards of Wisdom
\fs39\fsmilli19800 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 1
\fs36 \cf2 My son, do not forget my teaching,\cb1 \
\cb3 But let your heart keep my commandments;\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 2
\fs36 \cf2 For length of days and years of life\cb1 \
\cb3 And peace they will add to you.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 3
\fs36 \cf2 Do not let kindness and truth leave you;\cb1 \
\cb3 Bind them around your neck,\cb1 \
\cb3 Write them on the tablet of your heart.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 4
\fs36 \cf2 So you will find favor and good repute\cb1 \
\cb3 In the sight of God and man.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 5
\fs36 \cf2 Trust in the Lord with all your heart\cb1 \
\cb3 And do not lean on your own understanding.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 6
\fs36 \cf2 In all your ways acknowledge Him,\cb1 \
\cb3 And He will make your paths straight.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 7
\fs36 \cf2 Do not be wise in your own eyes;\cb1 \
\cb3 Fear the Lord and turn away from evil.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 8
\fs36 \cf2 It will be healing to your body\cb1 \
\cb3 And refreshment to your bones.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 9
\fs36 \cf2 Honor the Lord from your wealth\cb1 \
\cb3 And from the first of all your produce;\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 10
\fs36 \cf2 So your barns will be filled with plenty\cb1 \
\cb3 And your vats will overflow with new wine.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 11
\fs36 \cf2 My son, do not reject the discipline of the Lord\cb1 \
\cb3 Or loathe His reproof,\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 12
\fs36 \cf2 For whom the Lord loves He reproves,\cb1 \
\cb3 Even as a father corrects the son in whom he delights.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 13
\fs36 \cf2 How blessed is the man who finds wisdom\cb1 \
\cb3 And the man who gains understanding.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 14
\fs36 \cf2 For her profit is better than the profit of silver\cb1 \
\cb3 And her gain better than fine gold.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 15
\fs36 \cf2 She is more precious than jewels;\cb1 \
\cb3 And nothing you desire compares with her.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 16
\fs36 \cf2 Long life is in her right hand;\cb1 \
\cb3 In her left hand are riches and honor.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 17
\fs36 \cf2 Her ways are pleasant ways\cb1 \
\cb3 And all her paths are peace.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 18
\fs36 \cf2 She is a tree of life to those who take hold of her,\cb1 \
\cb3 And happy are all who hold her fast.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 19
\fs36 \cf2 The Lord by wisdom founded the earth,\cb1 \
\cb3 By understanding He established the heavens.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 20
\fs36 \cf2 By His knowledge the deeps were broken up\cb1 \
\cb3 And the skies drip with dew.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 21
\fs36 \cf2 My son, let them not vanish from your sight;\cb1 \
\cb3 Keep sound wisdom and discretion,\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 22
\fs36 \cf2 So they will be life to your soul\cb1 \
\cb3 And adornment to your neck.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 23
\fs36 \cf2 Then you will walk in your way securely\cb1 \
\cb3 And your foot will not stumble.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 24
\fs36 \cf2 When you lie down, you will not be afraid;\cb1 \
\cb3 When you lie down, your sleep will be sweet.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 25
\fs36 \cf2 Do not be afraid of sudden fear\cb1 \
\cb3 Nor of the onslaught of the wicked when it comes;\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 26
\fs36 \cf2 For the Lord will be your confidence\cb1 \
\cb3 And will keep your foot from being caught.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 27
\fs36 \cf2 Do not withhold good from those to whom it is due,\cb1 \
\cb3 When it is in your power to do it.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 28
\fs36 \cf2 Do not say to your neighbor, \'93Go, and come back,\cb1 \
\cb3 And tomorrow I will give it,\'94\cb1 \
\cb3 When you have it with you.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 29
\fs36 \cf2 Do not devise harm against your neighbor,\cb1 \
\cb3 While he lives securely beside you.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 30
\fs36 \cf2 Do not contend with a man without cause,\cb1 \
\cb3 If he has done you no harm.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 31
\fs36 \cf2 Do not envy a man of violence\cb1 \
\cb3 And do not choose any of his ways.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 32
\fs36 \cf2 For the devious are an abomination to the Lord;\cb1 \
\cb3 But He is intimate with the upright.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 33
\fs36 \cf2 The curse of the Lord is on the house of the wicked,\cb1 \
\cb3 But He blesses the dwelling of the righteous.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 34
\fs36 \cf2 Though He scoffs at the scoffers,\cb1 \
\cb3 Yet He gives grace to the afflicted.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 35
\fs36 \cf2 The wise will inherit honor,\cb1 \
\cb3 But fools display dishonor.}