{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2900
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldMT;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red15\green15\blue15;\red255\green255\blue255;\red100\green103\blue104;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c7059\c7059\c7059;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c46667\c47843\c48235;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa960\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
PROVERBS 1\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs40\fsmilli20394 \AppleTypeServices \cf2 \cb3 The Usefulness of Proverbs
\fs39\fsmilli19800 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 1
\fs36 \cf2 The proverbs of Solomon the son of David, king of Israel:\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 2
\fs36 \cf2 To know wisdom and instruction,\cb1 \
\cb3 To discern the sayings of understanding,\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 3
\fs36 \cf2 To receive instruction in wise behavior,\cb1 \
\cb3 Righteousness, justice and equity;\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 4
\fs36 \cf2 To give prudence to the naive,\cb1 \
\cb3 To the youth knowledge and discretion,\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 5
\fs36 \cf2 A wise man will hear and increase in learning,\cb1 \
\cb3 And a man of understanding will acquire wise counsel,\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 6
\fs36 \cf2 To understand a proverb and a figure,\cb1 \
\cb3 The words of the wise and their riddles.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 7
\fs36 \cf2 The fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge;\cb1 \
\cb3 Fools despise wisdom and instruction.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs40\fsmilli20394 \cf2 \cb3 The Enticement of Sinners
\fs39\fsmilli19800 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 8
\fs36 \cf2 Hear, my son, your father\'92s instruction\cb1 \
\cb3 And do not forsake your mother\'92s teaching;\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 9
\fs36 \cf2 Indeed, they are a graceful wreath to your head\cb1 \
\cb3 And ornaments about your neck.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 10
\fs36 \cf2 My son, if sinners entice you,\cb1 \
\cb3 Do not consent.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 11
\fs36 \cf2 If they say, \'93Come with us,\cb1 \
\cb3 Let us lie in wait for blood,\cb1 \
\cb3 Let us ambush the innocent without cause;\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 12
\fs36 \cf2 Let us swallow them alive like Sheol,\cb1 \
\cb3 Even whole, as those who go down to the pit;\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 13
\fs36 \cf2 We will find all kinds of precious wealth,\cb1 \
\cb3 We will fill our houses with spoil;\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 14
\fs36 \cf2 Throw in your lot with us,\cb1 \
\cb3 We shall all have one purse,\'94\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 15
\fs36 \cf2 My son, do not walk in the way with them.\cb1 \
\cb3 Keep your feet from their path,\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 16
\fs36 \cf2 For their feet run to evil\cb1 \
\cb3 And they hasten to shed blood.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 17
\fs36 \cf2 Indeed, it is useless to spread the baited net\cb1 \
\cb3 In the sight of any bird;\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 18
\fs36 \cf2 But they lie in wait for their own blood;\cb1 \
\cb3 They ambush their own lives.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 19
\fs36 \cf2 So are the ways of everyone who gains by violence;\cb1 \
\cb3 It takes away the life of its possessors.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs40\fsmilli20394 \cf2 \cb3 Wisdom Warns
\fs39\fsmilli19800 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 20
\fs36 \cf2 Wisdom shouts in the street,\cb1 \
\cb3 She lifts her voice in the square;\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 21
\fs36 \cf2 At the head of the noisy streets she cries out;\cb1 \
\cb3 At the entrance of the gates in the city she utters her sayings:\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 22
\fs36 \cf2 \'93How long, O naive ones, will you love being simple-minded?\cb1 \
\cb3 And scoffers delight themselves in scoffing\cb1 \
\cb3 And fools hate knowledge?\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 23
\fs36 \cf2 Turn to my reproof,\cb1 \
\cb3 Behold, I will pour out my spirit on you;\cb1 \
\cb3 I will make my words known to you.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 24
\fs36 \cf2 Because I called and you refused,\cb1 \
\cb3 I stretched out my hand and no one paid attention;\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 25
\fs36 \cf2 And you neglected all my counsel\cb1 \
\cb3 And did not want my reproof;\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 26
\fs36 \cf2 I will also laugh at your calamity;\cb1 \
\cb3 I will mock when your dread comes,\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 27
\fs36 \cf2 When your dread comes like a storm\cb1 \
\cb3 And your calamity comes like a whirlwind,\cb1 \
\cb3 When distress and anguish come upon you.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 28
\fs36 \cf2 Then they will call on me, but I will not answer;\cb1 \
\cb3 They will seek me diligently but they will not find me,\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 29
\fs36 \cf2 Because they hated knowledge\cb1 \
\cb3 And did not choose the fear of the Lord.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 30
\fs36 \cf2 They would not accept my counsel,\cb1 \
\cb3 They spurned all my reproof.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 31
\fs36 \cf2 So they shall eat of the fruit of their own way\cb1 \
\cb3 And be satiated with their own devices.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 32
\fs36 \cf2 For the waywardness of the naive will kill them,\cb1 \
\cb3 And the complacency of fools will destroy them.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 33
\fs36 \cf2 But he who listens to me shall live securely\cb1 \
\cb3 And will be at ease from the dread of evil.\'94}