{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2900
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldMT;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red15\green15\blue15;\red255\green255\blue255;\red100\green103\blue104;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c7059\c7059\c7059;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c46667\c47843\c48235;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa960\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
PROVERBS 11\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs40\fsmilli20394 \AppleTypeServices \cf2 \cb3 Contrast the Upright and the Wicked
\fs39\fsmilli19800 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 1
\fs36 \cf2 A false balance is an abomination to the Lord,\cb1 \
\cb3 But a just weight is His delight.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 2
\fs36 \cf2 When pride comes, then comes dishonor,\cb1 \
\cb3 But with the humble is wisdom.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 3
\fs36 \cf2 The integrity of the upright will guide them,\cb1 \
\cb3 But the crookedness of the treacherous will destroy them.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 4
\fs36 \cf2 Riches do not profit in the day of wrath,\cb1 \
\cb3 But righteousness delivers from death.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 5
\fs36 \cf2 The righteousness of the blameless will smooth his way,\cb1 \
\cb3 But the wicked will fall by his own wickedness.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 6
\fs36 \cf2 The righteousness of the upright will deliver them,\cb1 \
\cb3 But the treacherous will be caught by their own greed.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 7
\fs36 \cf2 When a wicked man dies, his expectation will perish,\cb1 \
\cb3 And the hope of strong men perishes.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 8
\fs36 \cf2 The righteous is delivered from trouble,\cb1 \
\cb3 But the wicked takes his place.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 9
\fs36 \cf2 With his mouth the godless man destroys his neighbor,\cb1 \
\cb3 But through knowledge the righteous will be delivered.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 10
\fs36 \cf2 When it goes well with the righteous, the city rejoices,\cb1 \
\cb3 And when the wicked perish, there is joyful shouting.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 11
\fs36 \cf2 By the blessing of the upright a city is exalted,\cb1 \
\cb3 But by the mouth of the wicked it is torn down.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 12
\fs36 \cf2 He who despises his neighbor lacks sense,\cb1 \
\cb3 But a man of understanding keeps silent.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 13
\fs36 \cf2 He who goes about as a talebearer reveals secrets,\cb1 \
\cb3 But he who is trustworthy conceals a matter.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 14
\fs36 \cf2 Where there is no guidance the people fall,\cb1 \
\cb3 But in abundance of counselors there is victory.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 15
\fs36 \cf2 He who is guarantor for a stranger will surely suffer for it,\cb1 \
\cb3 But he who hates being a guarantor is secure.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 16
\fs36 \cf2 A gracious woman attains honor,\cb1 \
\cb3 And ruthless men attain riches.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 17
\fs36 \cf2 The merciful man does himself good,\cb1 \
\cb3 But the cruel man does himself harm.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 18
\fs36 \cf2 The wicked earns deceptive wages,\cb1 \
\cb3 But he who sows righteousness gets a true reward.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 19
\fs36 \cf2 He who is steadfast in righteousness will attain to life,\cb1 \
\cb3 And he who pursues evil will bring about his own death.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 20
\fs36 \cf2 The perverse in heart are an abomination to the Lord,\cb1 \
\cb3 But the blameless in their walk are His delight.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 21
\fs36 \cf2 Assuredly, the evil man will not go unpunished,\cb1 \
\cb3 But the descendants of the righteous will be delivered.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 22
\fs36 \cf2  As a ring of gold in a swine\'92s snout\cb1 \
\cb3 So is a beautiful woman who lacks discretion.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 23
\fs36 \cf2 The desire of the righteous is only good,\cb1 \
\cb3 But the expectation of the wicked is wrath.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 24
\fs36 \cf2 There is one who scatters, and yet increases all the more,\cb1 \
\cb3 And there is one who withholds what is justly due, and yet it results only in want.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 25
\fs36 \cf2 The generous man will be prosperous,\cb1 \
\cb3 And he who waters will himself be watered.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 26
\fs36 \cf2 He who withholds grain, the people will curse him,\cb1 \
\cb3 But blessing will be on the head of him who sells it.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 27
\fs36 \cf2 He who diligently seeks good seeks favor,\cb1 \
\cb3 But he who seeks evil, evil will come to him.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 28
\fs36 \cf2 He who trusts in his riches will fall,\cb1 \
\cb3 But the righteous will flourish like the green leaf.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 29
\fs36 \cf2 He who troubles his own house will inherit wind,\cb1 \
\cb3 And the foolish will be servant to the wisehearted.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 30
\fs36 \cf2 The fruit of the righteous is a tree of life,\cb1 \
\cb3 And he who is wise wins souls.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 31
\fs36 \cf2 If the righteous will be rewarded in the earth,\cb1 \
\cb3 How much more the wicked and the sinner!}