{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2900
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldMT;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red15\green15\blue15;\red255\green255\blue255;\red100\green103\blue104;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c7059\c7059\c7059;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c46667\c47843\c48235;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa960\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
PROVERBS 5\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs40\fsmilli20394 \AppleTypeServices \cf2 \cb3 Pitfalls of Immorality
\fs39\fsmilli19800 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 1
\fs36 \cf2 My son, give attention to my wisdom,\cb1 \
\cb3 Incline your ear to my understanding;\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 2
\fs36 \cf2 That you may observe discretion\cb1 \
\cb3 And your lips may reserve knowledge.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 3
\fs36 \cf2 For the lips of an adulteress drip honey\cb1 \
\cb3 And smoother than oil is her speech;\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 4
\fs36 \cf2 But in the end she is bitter as wormwood,\cb1 \
\cb3 Sharp as a two-edged sword.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 5
\fs36 \cf2 Her feet go down to death,\cb1 \
\cb3 Her steps take hold of Sheol.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 6
\fs36 \cf2 She does not ponder the path of life;\cb1 \
\cb3 Her ways are unstable, she does not know it.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 7
\fs36 \cf2 Now then, my sons, listen to me\cb1 \
\cb3 And do not depart from the words of my mouth.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 8
\fs36 \cf2 Keep your way far from her\cb1 \
\cb3 And do not go near the door of her house,\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 9
\fs36 \cf2 Or you will give your vigor to others\cb1 \
\cb3 And your years to the cruel one;\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 10
\fs36 \cf2 And strangers will be filled with your strength\cb1 \
\cb3 And your hard-earned goods will go to the house of an alien;\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 11
\fs36 \cf2 And you groan at your final end,\cb1 \
\cb3 When your flesh and your body are consumed;\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 12
\fs36 \cf2 And you say, \'93How I have hated instruction!\cb1 \
\cb3 And my heart spurned reproof!\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 13
\fs36 \cf2 I have not listened to the voice of my teachers,\cb1 \
\cb3 Nor inclined my ear to my instructors!\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 14
\fs36 \cf2 I was almost in utter ruin\cb1 \
\cb3 In the midst of the assembly and congregation.\'94\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 15
\fs36 \cf2 Drink water from your own cistern\cb1 \
\cb3 And fresh water from your own well.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 16
\fs36 \cf2 Should your springs be dispersed abroad,\cb1 \
\cb3 Streams of water in the streets?\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 17
\fs36 \cf2 Let them be yours alone\cb1 \
\cb3 And not for strangers with you.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 18
\fs36 \cf2 Let your fountain be blessed,\cb1 \
\cb3 And rejoice in the wife of your youth.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 19
\fs36 \cf2  As a loving hind and a graceful doe,\cb1 \
\cb3 Let her breasts satisfy you at all times;\cb1 \
\cb3 Be exhilarated always with her love.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 20
\fs36 \cf2 For why should you, my son, be exhilarated with an adulteress\cb1 \
\cb3 And embrace the bosom of a foreigner?\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 21
\fs36 \cf2 For the ways of a man are before the eyes of the Lord,\cb1 \
\cb3 And He watches all his paths.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 22
\fs36 \cf2 His own iniquities will capture the wicked,\cb1 \
\cb3 And he will be held with the cords of his sin.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 23
\fs36 \cf2 He will die for lack of instruction,\cb1 \
\cb3 And in the greatness of his folly he will go astray.}