{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2900
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldMT;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red15\green15\blue15;\red255\green255\blue255;\red100\green103\blue104;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c7059\c7059\c7059;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c46667\c47843\c48235;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa960\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
PROVERBS 9\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs40\fsmilli20394 \AppleTypeServices \cf2 \cb3 Wisdom\'92s Invitation
\fs39\fsmilli19800 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 1
\fs36 \cf2 Wisdom has built her house,\cb1 \
\cb3 She has hewn out her seven pillars;\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 2
\fs36 \cf2 She has prepared her food, she has mixed her wine;\cb1 \
\cb3 She has also set her table;\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 3
\fs36 \cf2 She has sent out her maidens, she calls\cb1 \
\cb3 From the tops of the heights of the city:\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 4
\fs36 \cf2 \'93Whoever is naive, let him turn in here!\'94\cb1 \
\cb3 To him who lacks understanding she says,\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 5
\fs36 \cf2 \'93Come, eat of my food\cb1 \
\cb3 And drink of the wine I have mixed.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 6
\fs36 \cf2 Forsake your folly and live,\cb1 \
\cb3 And proceed in the way of understanding.\'94\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 7
\fs36 \cf2 He who corrects a scoffer gets dishonor for himself,\cb1 \
\cb3 And he who reproves a wicked man gets insults for himself.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 8
\fs36 \cf2 Do not reprove a scoffer, or he will hate you,\cb1 \
\cb3 Reprove a wise man and he will love you.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 9
\fs36 \cf2 Give instruction to a wise man and he will be still wiser,\cb1 \
\cb3 Teach a righteous man and he will increase his learning.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 10
\fs36 \cf2 The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom,\cb1 \
\cb3 And the knowledge of the Holy One is understanding.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 11
\fs36 \cf2 For by me your days will be multiplied,\cb1 \
\cb3 And years of life will be added to you.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 12
\fs36 \cf2 If you are wise, you are wise for yourself,\cb1 \
\cb3 And if you scoff, you alone will bear it.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 13
\fs36 \cf2 The woman of folly is boisterous,\cb1 \
\cb3 She is naive and knows nothing.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 14
\fs36 \cf2 She sits at the doorway of her house,\cb1 \
\cb3 On a seat by the high places of the city,\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 15
\fs36 \cf2 Calling to those who pass by,\cb1 \
\cb3 Who are making their paths straight:\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 16
\fs36 \cf2 \'93Whoever is naive, let him turn in here,\'94\cb1 \
\cb3 And to him who lacks understanding she says,\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 17
\fs36 \cf2 \'93Stolen water is sweet;\cb1 \
\cb3 And bread eaten in secret is pleasant.\'94\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 18
\fs36 \cf2 But he does not know that the dead are there,\cb1 \
\cb3 That her guests are in the depths of Sheol.}