{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2900
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldMT;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red15\green15\blue15;\red255\green255\blue255;\red100\green103\blue104;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c7059\c7059\c7059;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c46667\c47843\c48235;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa960\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
PROVERBS 7\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs40\fsmilli20394 \AppleTypeServices \cf2 \cb3 The Wiles of the Harlot
\fs39\fsmilli19800 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 1
\fs36 \cf2 My son, keep my words\cb1 \
\cb3 And treasure my commandments within you.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 2
\fs36 \cf2 Keep my commandments and live,\cb1 \
\cb3 And my teaching as the apple of your eye.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 3
\fs36 \cf2 Bind them on your fingers;\cb1 \
\cb3 Write them on the tablet of your heart.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 4
\fs36 \cf2 Say to wisdom, \'93You are my sister,\'94\cb1 \
\cb3 And call understanding your intimate friend;\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 5
\fs36 \cf2 That they may keep you from an adulteress,\cb1 \
\cb3 From the foreigner who flatters with her words.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 6
\fs36 \cf2 For at the window of my house\cb1 \
\cb3 I looked out through my lattice,\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 7
\fs36 \cf2 And I saw among the naive,\cb1 \
\cb3 And discerned among the youths\cb1 \
\cb3 A young man lacking sense,\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 8
\fs36 \cf2 Passing through the street near her corner;\cb1 \
\cb3 And he takes the way to her house,\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 9
\fs36 \cf2 In the twilight, in the evening,\cb1 \
\cb3 In the middle of the night and in the darkness.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 10
\fs36 \cf2 And behold, a woman comes to meet him,\cb1 \
\cb3 Dressed as a harlot and cunning of heart.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 11
\fs36 \cf2 She is boisterous and rebellious,\cb1 \
\cb3 Her feet do not remain at home;\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 12
\fs36 \cf2  She is now in the streets, now in the squares,\cb1 \
\cb3 And lurks by every corner.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 13
\fs36 \cf2 So she seizes him and kisses him\cb1 \
\cb3 And with a brazen face she says to him:\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 14
\fs36 \cf2 \'93I was due to offer peace offerings;\cb1 \
\cb3 Today I have paid my vows.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 15
\fs36 \cf2 Therefore I have come out to meet you,\cb1 \
\cb3 To seek your presence earnestly, and I have found you.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 16
\fs36 \cf2 I have spread my couch with coverings,\cb1 \
\cb3 With colored linens of Egypt.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 17
\fs36 \cf2 I have sprinkled my bed\cb1 \
\cb3 With myrrh, aloes and cinnamon.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 18
\fs36 \cf2 Come, let us drink our fill of love until morning;\cb1 \
\cb3 Let us delight ourselves with caresses.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 19
\fs36 \cf2 For my husband is not at home,\cb1 \
\cb3 He has gone on a long journey;\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 20
\fs36 \cf2 He has taken a bag of money with him,\cb1 \
\cb3 At the full moon he will come home.\'94\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 21
\fs36 \cf2 With her many persuasions she entices him;\cb1 \
\cb3 With her flattering lips she seduces him.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 22
\fs36 \cf2 Suddenly he follows her\cb1 \
\cb3 As an ox goes to the slaughter,\cb1 \
\cb3 Or as one in fetters to the discipline of a fool,\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 23
\fs36 \cf2 Until an arrow pierces through his liver;\cb1 \
\cb3 As a bird hastens to the snare,\cb1 \
\cb3 So he does not know that it will cost him his life.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 24
\fs36 \cf2 Now therefore, my sons, listen to me,\cb1 \
\cb3 And pay attention to the words of my mouth.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 25
\fs36 \cf2 Do not let your heart turn aside to her ways,\cb1 \
\cb3 Do not stray into her paths.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 26
\fs36 \cf2 For many are the victims she has cast down,\cb1 \
\cb3 And numerous are all her slain.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 27
\fs36 \cf2 Her house is the way to Sheol,\cb1 \
\cb3 Descending to the chambers of death.}