{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2900
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldMT;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red15\green15\blue15;\red255\green255\blue255;\red100\green103\blue104;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c7059\c7059\c7059;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c46667\c47843\c48235;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa960\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
PROVERBS 4\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs40\fsmilli20394 \AppleTypeServices \cf2 \cb3 A Father\'92s Instruction
\fs39\fsmilli19800 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 1
\fs36 \cf2 Hear, O sons, the instruction of a father,\cb1 \
\cb3 And give attention that you may gain understanding,\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 2
\fs36 \cf2 For I give you sound teaching;\cb1 \
\cb3 Do not abandon my instruction.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 3
\fs36 \cf2 When I was a son to my father,\cb1 \
\cb3 Tender and the only son in the sight of my mother,\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 4
\fs36 \cf2 Then he taught me and said to me,\cb1 \
\cb3 \'93Let your heart hold fast my words;\cb1 \
\cb3 Keep my commandments and live;\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 5
\fs36 \cf2 Acquire wisdom! Acquire understanding!\cb1 \
\cb3 Do not forget nor turn away from the words of my mouth.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 6
\fs36 \cf2 Do not forsake her, and she will guard you;\cb1 \
\cb3 Love her, and she will watch over you.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 7
\fs36 \cf2 The beginning of wisdom is: Acquire wisdom;\cb1 \
\cb3 And with all your acquiring, get understanding.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 8
\fs36 \cf2 Prize her, and she will exalt you;\cb1 \
\cb3 She will honor you if you embrace her.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 9
\fs36 \cf2 She will place on your head a garland of grace;\cb1 \
\cb3 She will present you with a crown of beauty.\'94\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 10
\fs36 \cf2 Hear, my son, and accept my sayings\cb1 \
\cb3 And the years of your life will be many.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 11
\fs36 \cf2 I have directed you in the way of wisdom;\cb1 \
\cb3 I have led you in upright paths.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 12
\fs36 \cf2 When you walk, your steps will not be impeded;\cb1 \
\cb3 And if you run, you will not stumble.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 13
\fs36 \cf2 Take hold of instruction; do not let go.\cb1 \
\cb3 Guard her, for she is your life.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 14
\fs36 \cf2 Do not enter the path of the wicked\cb1 \
\cb3 And do not proceed in the way of evil men.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 15
\fs36 \cf2 Avoid it, do not pass by it;\cb1 \
\cb3 Turn away from it and pass on.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 16
\fs36 \cf2 For they cannot sleep unless they do evil;\cb1 \
\cb3 And they are robbed of sleep unless they make someone stumble.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 17
\fs36 \cf2 For they eat the bread of wickedness\cb1 \
\cb3 And drink the wine of violence.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 18
\fs36 \cf2 But the path of the righteous is like the light of dawn,\cb1 \
\cb3 That shines brighter and brighter until the full day.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 19
\fs36 \cf2 The way of the wicked is like darkness;\cb1 \
\cb3 They do not know over what they stumble.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 20
\fs36 \cf2 My son, give attention to my words;\cb1 \
\cb3 Incline your ear to my sayings.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 21
\fs36 \cf2 Do not let them depart from your sight;\cb1 \
\cb3 Keep them in the midst of your heart.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 22
\fs36 \cf2 For they are life to those who find them\cb1 \
\cb3 And health to all their body.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 23
\fs36 \cf2 Watch over your heart with all diligence,\cb1 \
\cb3 For from it flow the springs of life.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 24
\fs36 \cf2 Put away from you a deceitful mouth\cb1 \
\cb3 And put devious speech far from you.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 25
\fs36 \cf2 Let your eyes look directly ahead\cb1 \
\cb3 And let your gaze be fixed straight in front of you.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 26
\fs36 \cf2 Watch the path of your feet\cb1 \
\cb3 And all your ways will be established.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 27
\fs36 \cf2 Do not turn to the right nor to the left;\cb1 \
\cb3 Turn your foot from evil.\cb1 \
}