{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2900
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldMT;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red15\green15\blue15;\red255\green255\blue255;\red100\green103\blue104;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c7059\c7059\c7059;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c46667\c47843\c48235;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa960\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
PROVERBS 6\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs40\fsmilli20394 \AppleTypeServices \cf2 \cb3 Parental Counsel
\fs39\fsmilli19800 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 1
\fs36 \cf2 My son, if you have become surety for your neighbor,\cb1 \
\cb3 Have given a pledge for a stranger,\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 2
\fs36 \cf2  If you have been snared with the words of your mouth,\cb1 \
\cb3 Have been caught with the words of your mouth,\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 3
\fs36 \cf2 Do this then, my son, and deliver yourself;\cb1 \
\cb3 Since you have come into the hand of your neighbor,\cb1 \
\cb3 Go, humble yourself, and importune your neighbor.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 4
\fs36 \cf2 Give no sleep to your eyes,\cb1 \
\cb3 Nor slumber to your eyelids;\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 5
\fs36 \cf2 Deliver yourself like a gazelle from the hunter\'92s hand\cb1 \
\cb3 And like a bird from the hand of the fowler.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 6
\fs36 \cf2 Go to the ant, O sluggard,\cb1 \
\cb3 Observe her ways and be wise,\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 7
\fs36 \cf2 Which, having no chief,\cb1 \
\cb3 Officer or ruler,\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 8
\fs36 \cf2 Prepares her food in the summer\cb1 \
\cb3 And gathers her provision in the harvest.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 9
\fs36 \cf2 How long will you lie down, O sluggard?\cb1 \
\cb3 When will you arise from your sleep?\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 10
\fs36 \cf2 \'93A little sleep, a little slumber,\cb1 \
\cb3 A little folding of the hands to rest\'94\'97\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 11
\fs36 \cf2 Your poverty will come in like a vagabond\cb1 \
\cb3 And your need like an armed man.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 12
\fs36 \cf2 A worthless person, a wicked man,\cb1 \
\cb3 Is the one who walks with a perverse mouth,\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 13
\fs36 \cf2 Who winks with his eyes, who signals with his feet,\cb1 \
\cb3 Who points with his fingers;\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 14
\fs36 \cf2 Who with perversity in his heart continually devises evil,\cb1 \
\cb3 Who spreads strife.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 15
\fs36 \cf2 Therefore his calamity will come suddenly;\cb1 \
\cb3 Instantly he will be broken and there will be no healing.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 16
\fs36 \cf2 There are six things which the Lord hates,\cb1 \
\cb3 Yes, seven which are an abomination to Him:\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 17
\fs36 \cf2 Haughty eyes, a lying tongue,\cb1 \
\cb3 And hands that shed innocent blood,\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 18
\fs36 \cf2 A heart that devises wicked plans,\cb1 \
\cb3 Feet that run rapidly to evil,\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 19
\fs36 \cf2 A false witness who utters lies,\cb1 \
\cb3 And one who spreads strife among brothers.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 20
\fs36 \cf2 My son, observe the commandment of your father\cb1 \
\cb3 And do not forsake the teaching of your mother;\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 21
\fs36 \cf2 Bind them continually on your heart;\cb1 \
\cb3 Tie them around your neck.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 22
\fs36 \cf2 When you walk about, they will guide you;\cb1 \
\cb3 When you sleep, they will watch over you;\cb1 \
\cb3 And when you awake, they will talk to you.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 23
\fs36 \cf2 For the commandment is a lamp and the teaching is light;\cb1 \
\cb3 And reproofs for discipline are the way of life\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 24
\fs36 \cf2 To keep you from the evil woman,\cb1 \
\cb3 From the smooth tongue of the adulteress.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 25
\fs36 \cf2 Do not desire her beauty in your heart,\cb1 \
\cb3 Nor let her capture you with her eyelids.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 26
\fs36 \cf2 For on account of a harlot one is reduced to a loaf of bread,\cb1 \
\cb3 And an adulteress hunts for the precious life.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 27
\fs36 \cf2 Can a man take fire in his bosom\cb1 \
\cb3 And his clothes not be burned?\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 28
\fs36 \cf2 Or can a man walk on hot coals\cb1 \
\cb3 And his feet not be scorched?\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 29
\fs36 \cf2 So is the one who goes in to his neighbor\'92s wife;\cb1 \
\cb3 Whoever touches her will not go unpunished.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 30
\fs36 \cf2 Men do not despise a thief if he steals\cb1 \
\cb3 To satisfy himself when he is hungry;\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 31
\fs36 \cf2 But when he is found, he must repay sevenfold;\cb1 \
\cb3 He must give all the substance of his house.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 32
\fs36 \cf2 The one who commits adultery with a woman is lacking sense;\cb1 \
\cb3 He who would destroy himself does it.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 33
\fs36 \cf2 Wounds and disgrace he will find,\cb1 \
\cb3 And his reproach will not be blotted out.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 34
\fs36 \cf2 For jealousy enrages a man,\cb1 \
\cb3 And he will not spare in the day of vengeance.\cb1 \

\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 35
\fs36 \cf2 He will not accept any ransom,\cb1 \
\cb3 Nor will he be satisfied though you give many gifts.\cb1 \
}